Valentino’s Pierpaolo Piccioli on Pedro Pascal’s shorts—and the Modern Man
To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesTo revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesFollow usBy Samuel HineAt Friday’s Valentino menswear show, 40 of the 56 looks included shorts or skirts. Had creative director Pierpaolo Piccioli learned a thing or two from Pedro Pascal at the Met Gala, who broke the internet in his Valentino boyshorts? “I think that Pedro wearing the shorts was nothing so new, fashion-wise,” Piccioli said following the “Valentino Narratives” show, held in a sundrenched, student-filled quad (or Renaissance courtyard, more accurately) at the University of Milan. But it was a very modern style flex. “Having a man of 48 aware of himself, wearing shorts on an official red carpet, it gave a sort of viral vibe…There's one box of machismo, one box of fanciness, and I think you can be both.” Pascal, in other words, had found power in sensitivity. As had Euphoria actor Jacob Elordi, who wore a similar thigh-flashing getup in the front row.Valentino last held a standalone men’s runway show three years ago. In that time, the battle lines in the debate over gender and masculinity have been drawn and redrawn several times over (in America, at least). Piccioli, clearly, wanted to make the most of his return. “The men’s project has always been important to me,” he said. “I want to celebrate the peculiar work done on the codes of tailoring and the demystification of masculinity going back on the catwalk, an unconventional one. These have been years of merge and intentional turmoil, now we have a synthesis to look at.”Piccioli was thinking, he explained backstage, about A Little Life, Hanya Yanagihara’s 2015 bestselling bildungsroman. Previously, the book’s main contribution to fashion was those graphic T-shirts listing the names of the four male protagonists whose triumphs and sufferings begin when they move to New York from their New England college, and which play out across some 700 pages. (You know the tee: Jude&JB&Willem&Malcolm.) Guests were invited with custom copies of the book. (Yanagihara, now the editor-in-chief of T Magazine, told me that she was surprised but flattered by the whole thing.)“Hanya’s novel has a lot to do with this collection, the striking force of vulnerability and the fierceness of emotions that frame this young men life is something that moved me and pushed me to reflect on how work must still be done to overcome cliches and gender stereotypes,” Piccioli wrote on Instagram before the show. “I read the book three years ago, maybe more,” he added after the show. “To me, A Little Life is a very intimate tale of man. Showing emotion used to be kind of forbidden for powerful men.” Sartorial emotion, too: “I think that you can be powerful by wearing tailoring with a skirt, with shorts, and with flowers.”There were no graphic tees—Piccioli’s new man is a sophisticate—but there was a smart black double breasted jacket with an A Little Life quote printed across the front: “We are so old, we have become young again.” Which read almost like a mission statement as Piccioli remixed the codes of menswear with a strong current of boyishness. Monochromatic jackets sporting wool applique boutonnieres were paired with shorts, and styled with a very academic series of schoolboy socks and loafers. The styling possibilities expanded from there: large overcoats swapped for blazers, ties woven in and out, color palettes blending together. “The modern male wardrobe is full of vulnerability, experimental gestures, romantic hints,” Piccioli said in an email following the show. “The suit alphabet is touched by artistic improv, and this is what makes the whole thing interesting to me.”Besides the skirts, the only real gesture to a gender fluid fashion trend was in a series of gauzy pussybow blouses that were left undone, stirring in the hot breeze—Piccioli is more pragmatist than provocateur. “Working on the men’s wardrobe means that you have to work on very few centimeters, actually. If you move the shoulders five centimeters, you change a lot,” he said backstage. Painting jumpsuits and workwear jackets—all plain and oversized, some embellished with floral motifs—joined the parade of tailoring to complete the modern man’s wardrobe. A little machismo, a little fanciness.By Gaurav SonavaneBy Parth Charan“It's about showing your fragility, your intimacy, your tenderness,” said Piccioli of the Valentino man. “You can be assertive even if you don't follow the rules. Being a man for centuries was about following rules or laws of society, and you couldn’t show your intimacy, you couldn’t show your vulnerability. And I think that is not freedom or power.”First published on gq.comBy Gaurav SonavaneBy Parth CharanBy Saumyaa VohraBy WIREDBy Lucy FordBy Sanjana RayMore From GQ IndiaCondé Nast India© 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service and Policy and Cookie Statement. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.