H&M’s Latest collaboration with Mugler is packed with top-notch menswear
To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesTo revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesFollow usBy Selman FazilH&M’s collab collections are some of the most hotly anticipated fashion moments each year. In the past, the Swedish behemoth has tied up with a wide range of high fashion brands including Balmain, Comme des Garçons, Karl Lagerfeld, Alexander Wang, and Versace. In 2021, H&M’s collab with Sabyasachi was sold out within a few minutes. This year, the brand is set to launch its collection in collaboration with Mugler, the avant-garde French fashion house. Founded in the 1970s by the French fashion icon Manfred Thierry Mugler, the label is known for its architectural designs that embrace the human body. Music legends including Michael Jackson, Madonna, Grace Jones, David Bowie have all been muses to the iconic fashion house. To discuss the key aspects of the collection, we chatted with Casey Cadwallader, the creative director of Mugler, and Ann-Sofie Johansson, the creative advisor of H&M.Casey Cadwallader: I’m really honoured to be asked to work with H&M. I do think there is a shared value system here—between H&M and Mugler. Both care about giving people access to amazing fashion, and both care about confidence and opening up style conversations to a broad range of people. The Mugler world has always been about inviting people in, and that’s what we are doing here. I knew it was a great partnership as soon as H&M approached me. I was thrilled by the process of offering wider audience access to pieces that Mugler has been known and loved for. But of course, one of the joys of Mugler is the archive and how broad it is, so of course we wanted to celebrate that within this collection, especially to honour Thierry’s legacy. My own journey with the house is very tied to the archive and using key elements from it as starting points for new ideas. So this collection, it’s naturally about the past, present, and future of the house all combined, because that’s how I work as a designer; it’s always about a mingling of influences.Cadwallader: I really wanted the collection to be true Mugler. It needed to completely encapsulate the spirit of the house—freedom, daring, transformation, excitement, flamboyance, youth—and offer people a piece of authentic Mugler, which is why you see so many of our iconic pieces within the collection, from bodysuits to denim to tailoring. It’s such an honour to be on the list of amazing designers who have, over the last 20 years, collaborated with H&M and I wanted to make the collection super-strong, to follow in those footsteps.Cadwallader: The collection is really full of our signatures. I was really inspired by the ethos of the H&M designer collaborations—which is about offering people something to collect, something that stands up in the history of fashion. I looked at past collaborations, like the one Alber Elbaz did, which was so true to Lanvin, in terms of the design of the pieces. And I looked at the Versace and [Maison] Margiela ones, which I actually bought pieces from at the time, and which, again, were really about offering people signature pieces. I drew a lot of inspiration from that idea and I was adamant that this had to be iconic Mugler—nothing compromised or watered down. Mugler has always been about embracing the body and extending it into new realms, such as when Thierry mixed the body with technological aspects. I’m very inspired by that idea, and a lot of our pieces use cut and seams and lines as a form of architecture to accentuate or enhance or lift the body. You see that in our signature spiral jeans, which feature prominently in the collection, and in the tailoring, which really is about complimenting and defining the body—with the strong shoulders, the nipped-in waists.Cadwallader: I’m really thrilled with how strong the menswear is—there is so much choice and such a bold and flamboyant spirit. You’ll see a lot of denim and leather, which are both signature Mugler fabrics. And then lots of great tailoring. There are also some good layering pieces that I love, like see-through mesh tops with flocked star print and crystal embellishments and corseted tank -tops, or tanks with cut-outs. For casual moments, there are great hoodies and T-shirts with playful embellishments. The collection also includes archive pieces, which are remakes of the ’80s and ’90s classics by Thierry Mugler, which I selected from the archive. One of these, for men, is a great acidic-green tailored jacket, a recreation of the iconic style worn by David Bowie—it’s very special.Cadwallader: The whole collection was built with gender fluidity in mind, because, as an ethos, that’s really in Mugler’s DNA. So really all pieces—including accessories—can be shared and borrowed across genders. There are great bags, scarves, and ankle boots to choose from. And the jewellery is really strong; there are all kinds of sculptural earrings and necklaces in gold and silver, in different scales and shapes, from teardrop to the iconic Mugler star, which would look great on men.Ann-Sofie Johansson: Mugler just felt totally right for now. It’s a house that has been on our wish list for a while, as all of us at H&M have been really impressed with what Casey has created with his reinvigoration of the house. We have also been fascinated by the current global enthusiasm for the ’80s and ’90s icons, and the way young people are looking to the past for inspiration. The house’s founder Thierry Mugler is obviously a big part of that. He is key to the flamboyance and excitement of that period; he set the agenda, just as Casey is doing now, by reinterpreting the house and its codes for a fresh generation. I think we couldn’t have wished to work with a better designer for the moment.By Gaurav SonavaneBy Parth CharanJohansson: From the start, Casey was keen to bring together the pieces that have really defined Mugler today: the tailoring, the denim and jeans, the leather. There are just so many iconic pieces within the range. I think men will be really pleased with how broad the collection is; there’s everything from super-bold, flamboyant pieces to great casual hoodies and T-shirts.Johansson: The collection will launch in select stores and online on 11 May 2023.Johansson: All of us at H&M are proud to have pioneered the designer collaboration model and we are always thrilled to be adding to our list of great partnerships. We have a constant wish list of designers or houses who we think are interesting and we follow each one carefully and consider who is right for the moment. We like to offer diversity to our customers – and I love how broad our past list of partnerships has been, with so many different aesthetics and sensibilities. Just look at the history – there’s Stella McCartney, Margiela, Marni, Versace, Simone Rocha and so many more. And now Mugler—it’s a great mix! We hope to continue surprising our customers with exciting campaigns going forward!Johansson: Mugler and Casey have been incredibly generous with many of their key pieces. And that’s always what we, as H&M, want to get—because our customers are so keen to get a piece of fashion history. That’s exactly what Casey has offered. Personally, I love leather pieces, like the leather trench coat; you’d treasure that forever. And I love the denim spiral jeans, just because they really are a Casey signature—something he invented. And they are so beautifully made and meticulous when it comes to shape and angle; you can tell he studied architecture as they totally enhance and empower the body, lifting, shaping, and making it super-sculptural. Talking of architecture, the jewellery is also very special and very sculptural—really bold and unapologetic.Ranveer Singh's denim jacket in RARKPK costs more than iPhone 14 Pro Max8 colours uber-rich people & multi-millionaires avoid wearing; here's whyThe Dior Tears capsule collection tells a story of the journey of jazz, denim, and the preppy styleSkincare for men: 5 secrets every man should knowHere's why a white T-shirt continues to remain a wardrobe stapleBy Selman FazilBy Saumyaa VohraBy Samuel HineBy Parth CharanBy Samuel HineBy  Saloni DhruvBy Samuel HineBy Parth CharanMore From GQ IndiaCondé Nast India© 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service and Policy and Cookie Statement. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.