The coolest men are going big on nail art
To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesTo revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesFollow usBy  Zak MaouiMen with polished tips are nothing new – legends such as David Bowie and Kurt Cobain were doing this decades ago – but things have really ramped up a notch. It was around 2019 that nail art for men became more of a thing in grooming, with the likes of Harry Styles, Troye Sivan, Tyler, the Creator and Steve Lacy getting down with lacquered fingernails, making it an essential part of being a new sort of celebrity. And brands swiftly followed. Chanel launched its own nail polish for men, and now, most of those old school labels (Rimmel, Mac et al) label their polishes as gender neutral.But guys today aren't just rocking clear polish or black nails. Look to Harry Styles, who launched his own beauty brand Pleasing, with the hero product being a range of technicolour male polishes. And Styles, who does it himself, encourages you to mix and match the entries in his range.It's no surprise, really, that nail art for men is rapidly getting more popular. If men’s clothes are getting wilder (look to the red carpet for evidence), why wouldn’t grooming routines follow suit? But it isn't just stopping with polish. Oh no. Nail art is now a lot more than just a lick of shiny stuff. Nail tattoos are a thing, as are stickers (as seen on Harry Styles).Our advice? Start simple. If you’ve never worn nail varnish before and are feeling nervous about it, then leave the intricate designs for later and choose one or two colours that you can either alternate between fingers or hands – if you’re really unsure about it, you could even leave some nails blank à la A$AP Rocky.And you don't need to try and do it yourself (painting your nails as a first-timer ain't easy). While salons like the now-closed WAH Nails (replaced by Beautystack) and Imarni Nails have been painting intricate designs on the nails of London’s most stylish women for years, it's more and more common that men are taking a seat in the toluene-scented salons.To help you nail the matter at hand, we spoke to some of London's leading nail artists, Amanda Lee owner and founder of Iris Avenue nail Salon in Fitzrovia, and Chiara Ballisai about the boom in male manicures and what you should be going for.“Nail art is the broad term of decorating nails,” Lee explains. “It could be anything from adding crystals, to airbrush effects to hand-painted designs. We normally encourage nail art to be performed whilst doing a gel manicure rather than regular polish due to the longevity you can achieve with the manicure and also the wider range of techniques that can be used.”Nail art, as the name suggests, is to all intents and purposes an art form," Ballisai suggests. “As shared it's the expression of one’s personality and the desire to complete a bold look, all through the creation of a manicure. You can achieve it with freehand drawing and abstract, or for an at-home result, you can use stickers and gems. Another favourite is chrome powders; however, this can only be used with gel polish. Personally, I'm a fan of chrome powder and gems as you can create so many different looks from a subtle look to something bold and out there!”“A manicure entails cutting and filing the nails to shape, tidying the cuticles and buffing the nails," says Lee. "Regular polish or gel polish application can be followed after this. Not only do regular manicures maintain healthy nails and keep hands looking polished and groomed, but they can also be relaxing too, as most are finished with a massage.”“Getting a manicure is extremely good for those who bite their cuticle and nails as this will eventually help them stop habits by avoiding hangnails and soreness,” says Ballisai. “Also, the removal of dry and dead skin cells helps to promote healthy cell renewal and growth; our hands are exposed to so many tasks on a daily basis that it’s easy for dirt and germs to get underneath our nails. The key to keeping your manicure longer is applying cuticle oil and moisturiser daily, or even more often if you can.”“With a classic manicure, patience is key,” says Ballisai. “Regular nail polish will be applied and maybe some nail art; this will take time to dry. A basic manicure can last anywhere up to seven days and the polish can be removed with nail polish remover or acetone."A gel manicure is great for those who don’t like waiting around for their nails to dry! Anyone with an active lifestyle that needs a manicure to last between 2 to 3 weeks without any chipping, peeling, or cracking- this is for you. Unlike a classic manicure, a gel manicure requires to be cured under a LED or UV lamp. Gel polish can be removed by soaking off at home by wrapping your nails with acetone and tin foil.  It is suggested to go back to a salon to better care for your nails.“Gel or acrylic work best for those who want the longevity of a gel manicure with a little more reinforcement or extra length. Gel acrylic manicures have the same steps as a gel manicure and need to be cured under a LED or UV lamp. This type of manicure needs to be professionally removed in a salon.”“We do Flash Tattoo manicures that have been popular among guys,” says Lee. “The nails are delicately hand-painted with a tattoo design and are finished with a matt top coat to achieve a flat look. The ‘tattoo’ will last for months –  until the nails grow out (they can still be filed down). It’s a great way to get the tattoo look without the commitment. ”“Nowadays, there is no ‘gender neutral’ style,” says Ballisai. “Everyone is free to choose the style they like and what expresses their personality the best; from natural nails to nail art to nail extensions!.”First published on gq-magazine.co.ukRanveer Singh's denim jacket in RARKPK costs more than iPhone 14 Pro Max8 colours uber-rich people & multi-millionaires avoid wearing; here's whyThe Dior Tears capsule collection tells a story of the journey of jazz, denim, and the preppy styleSkincare for men: 5 secrets every man should knowHere's why a white T-shirt continues to remain a wardrobe stapleBy Radhika AgrawalBy  Saloni DhruvBy Saurav SBy Paloma GonzálezBy Che KurrienBy Paloma GonzálezBy Saumyaa VohraBy  Saloni DhruvMore From GQ IndiaCondé Nast India© 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service and Policy and Cookie Statement. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.