The 101 (!) biggest fits from the most star-studded Men’s Fashion Week in history
To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesTo revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesFollow usBy Eileen CartterFrom Pharrell’s Louis Vuitton debut to the stars of HBO’s Succession, The White Lotus, and The Idol painting the town, high-fashion celebrity menswear has never been so plentiful.Paris Fashion Week Men’s est terminée, drawing to a close the most celebrity-centric men’s fashion month this side of the Atlantic has ever seen. (That said, stay tuned for the couture shows to kick off next week. Sheesh!) Never before have this many famous dudes peacocked around the streets of Florence, Milan, and Paris with such gusto.This has been an unprecedented last few weeks for several reasons—not least of which was bonafide famous person Pharrell’s Louis Vuitton debut, which continued his late predecessor Virgil Abloh’s legacy by rallying the most famous people in the world (including the likes of Beyoncé and Jay-Z, Rihanna and A$AP Rocky, plus Kim Kardashian, Zendaya, Lewis Hamilton, and more) for his Seine-stopping show in Paris last week.Elsewhere, the HBO Fashion Week gauntlet marched on: Succession’s Jeremy Strong and Alexander Skarsgård made appearances in Milan (including at GQ’s Loro Piana garden party), while the show’s resident alpha and beta, Brian Cox and Nicholas Braun, met up at the Loewe show in Paris. A few seats down at Loewe, The White Lotus creator Mike White sat alongside his season 1 and 2 actors Murray Bartlett and Theo James; meanwhile, The Idol co-stars Troye Sivan and Moses Sumney were fashion plates about town.(And if you’re curious as to how Skarsgård’s tech overlord Lukas Matsson might feel about attending Fashion Week, the actor told GQ: “I think he’d be really excited about this for several reasons. He’s so hyper and he’s got a little bit of an attention deficit disorder, so I think this would really speak to him. … [This] would be a thrilling evening for Lukas.”)Scroll on to see the many, many major style moments from this month in Paris, Milan, and Florence.First published on gq.comThe man of the hour, sporting his own creations. Praise be!An ideal pair of fits for a fashion show at Versailles.It's only fitting that GQ's Most Stylish Man (twice over!) would make an appearance in Paris.Shorts? On. Shirts? Off. The only way to beat the heat at fashion week.A lightweight suit will also do nicely.From Cannes to Versailles, Manu's on one.“I can’t wait to finish fashion and make a movie,” the ERL designer, who showed earlier in Florence, recently told GQ.No one is relishing the post-Succession life more than Brian Cox.How leisurely!No shirt is still the new shirt.Sebastian Stan's now-standard high school English teacher look, summerized.The outfit equivalent of the teddy bear emoji 🧸.Double denim? Mais oui!See above.Big week for denim (despite the scorching Paris temps).Fashion's shorts renaissance is upon us.Dior Birks on deck.A little cosplay? Sure, why not.The Kenzo designer keeps it casual ahead of his show.Someone needs to get Justin Bieber a pair of these jeans, stat.If you're going to wear a jaunty winter hat in the summer, it may as well be at Paris Fashion Week.The couple that coordinates hats together, stays together.Wearing jeans, a tactical vest, and Timbs in on a summer day in Paris is no easy feat.Bonjour!Ah yes, the eternal summertime question: to trench or not to trench?A very solid track-jacket-and-jeans combo.The gams were out this fashion month.Stranger Things star Noah Schnapp kicking off the Netflix contingent at the Ami Alexandre Mattiussi alongside……Never Have I Ever's Darren Barnet……and Wednesday's Hunter Doohan. Sheesh!What if they remade Avatar: The Way of Water on the Seine?Oh, yeah!The king of fashion week returns.A great use of jeans tucked into boots happening here.Welcome to Paris Fashion Week, Paul Dano!Is it a pair of jeans? A jean skirt? Jean shorts? Lots to think about here.The only appropriate way to wear a boiler suit on a hot June day.Cool shades.Another fur coat? I just know these famous fellas are sweating bullets. Alas!Jackman in Paris.The Red, White & Royal Blue star makes his PFW debut.Offset, is that you?Yup, that's him!The car-to-venue tunnel fit strut works in Paris, too.There's always a market for some très chic pajamas.A classic Jerry Lorenzo look.Another pair of cool shades.Common and his beard are Grooming Gods all-timers.Hi, Tyler!Lavender haze.Très chic.Some very choice his-and-hers Rhude looks.Tough to beat some classic Missoni zig-zags and classic high-top Chucks.Los Angeles's finest.Sheesh!Sheesh, once again!“When you and your homie are riding different waves but still building.”The man himself debuts LV's new pixelated Damier check pattern, a.k.a. “Damouflage.”An A+ fashion week hairstyle.How to stifle a laugh in style.A neon drawstring? Inspired!Migos forever.Lenny doing what Lenny does best.As close to a non-shirt as a shirt can get.A solid pair of shades to block out the flashbulbs.A trio of top-tier athletes wears a trio of top-tier jackets.Matching your lipstick to your acid-wash denim? Pro move.Maybe it's time to give frosted red tips a try?Aubergine with a side of Burgundy? Delicious.Very trippy!The front row is serious business……but not too serious!For Yung Taco, an LV show is Paris is just another Casual Friday.Representing since Pharrell's Billionaire Boys Club days.Some inspired stripes-layering from Timothée Chalamet's favorite guy.What would Tony Montana make of Paris Fashion Week?Sporty!A cappuccino-hued suit is perfect for Milan.The king of Zegna in his natural habitat.Just a great pair of pants.Oh, yeah!Easy does it.Gotta love those spiky Prada collars.Crisp.More shorts inspo for your sweaty summer looks.On the other hand, if you're in the market for some off-season looks……the famous fellas have you covered.Tough to beat a classic white tank.Glitzy!In case you're looking to incorporate some more fishnet into your life.The scrunched Nike socks really pull this look together.Checks over stripes.Always nice to see a pop of red here and there.When it comes to “stealth wealth” discourse, the Succession actor tells GQ he feels “sort of like a weather vane of it all. A rooster on a weather vane. Wearing a bucket hat.”Leather in the summertime? Wilder things have happened.(See above.)Feel free to add the ol' one shoulder maneuver to your summer-wardrobe arsenal.Peep the “SCHMUCK”-inscribed L.L. Bean tote.Breezy.The Matrix meets Vogue.“Welcome to ‘Cash-Cocking’ 101. We will be your instructors.”By Noah Johnson By Eileen CartterBy  Saloni DhruvBy Samuel HineBy The Editors of GQBy Selman FazilBy Che KurrienBy Che KurrienMore From GQ IndiaCondé Nast India© 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service and Policy and Cookie Statement. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.