8 homegrown streetwear labels to level up your street cred with
To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesTo revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesFollow usBy  Saloni DhruvIn the last few years, streetwear in India has drastically evolved from having logo-driven international brands you could brag about to your peers to homegrown labels that offer craftsmanship and storytelling as a part of their ethos. Streetwear is now more than just hype and labels, it’s a lifestyle, a choice to be who you are. These Indian labels are not afraid to be bold and loud when it comes to showcasing their art through their collections. These eight labels offer a diverse range of new classics to now have in your wardrobe.This Mumbai-based streetwear label is the brainchild of Kuship Parmar and Urvash Parmar who founded it in 2021 as a means to explore the unconventional and unventured route of streetwear in India. This unconventional route draws from minimalism in the form of simple silhouettes and neutral hues that speak the language of quiet luxury rather than graphic prints and bold colours that streetwear is synonymous with. From parachute pants to utility bomber jackets, you’ll find pieces that would be a seamless addition to your closet, without going broke.By Lucy Ford, Jack King and Brit DawsonYour search for that perfect oversized hoodie will come to a halt once you scroll through Naasi Empire’s vast collection. Featuring some of the coolest and craziest prints, Naazi Empire’s range of collection offers not just oversized hoodies, but also oversized T-shirts with cheeky slogans like ‘Have a Good Day’ and ‘I Don’t Care If People Question Me’ sprawled across the back, all under 2k.With Lead-A, creative director Sagal Singh plays with form and structure, not shying away from exaggerating the oversized look in streetwear. Take his ‘lehenga sweeper denim’, as he calls it, for example, that showcases volume and multiple pockets as details. The ‘modular denim’ is held together by buttons and rivets and has double layers, leaning into the idea of having a modular piece of clothing.By Gaurav SonavaneBy Parth CharanBlueprint’s experimental lab takes utility and futuristic silhouettes and turns them into a cocktail so unique that even Ye and Denma lovers would be pleased to get their hands on it. The highlight of this label is its oversized puffer jackets that look like clouds and are water-repellent and constructed in nylon or silver woven polyester. If you’re looking to add one statement piece to your closet, let it be Blueprint’s motion puffer jacket.Based in Dehradun, Walking Vertical is the brainchild of Akash Patwal, a NIFT graduate who seeks to turn textiles into a form of art. And that’s exactly what you’ll find in his collection–art. Patwal manipulates textiles with textures, patchwork, hand embroidery and 3D printing to create visual illusions with their pieces which are abstract and unique, reminiscent of Japanese streetwear, but with a local twist.By Gaurav SonavaneBy Parth CharanIf done right, upcycled clothing can look as chic as any streetwear rather than shabby. And the one label that does it right is Stand. From shirts to denim, the brand offers upcycled pieces with patchwork and embroidery. Think a corduroy jacket with a long patch of denim running down the sleeve, or the ‘lover boy’ jeans with big patches of denim heart stitched on the sides, or a cotton shirt with four denim pockets. Personal favourite though, is their ‘shirbag’ which is a shirt that is upcycled into a tote bag.By Saurav SStarted by Siddhant Sabharwal and Mokam Singh in 2020, Bluorng (pronounced as blue-orange), in a short period of time, has created a place for itself as a go-to homegrown premium streetwear label for many. So much so that the duo opened their first studio in Delhi and established their first flagship store in Mumbai in 2022.By providing comfort with quality, craftsmanship, and style, Bluorng offers a range of closet essentials, including cargo pants and leather bags. If you want to invest in a good pair of cargo, then their ripstop cargo pants are a perfect addition, with 12 multipurpose pockets and low-hanging suspenders. The best part–they can be converted into shorts too.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.For Mumbai-based label Strange, conceptualisation and storytelling is the heart of their brand and the community they are trying to create, whether it's detailing on a T-shirt or ‘taking over’ sprawled across the front of their shorts. The brand caters to the duality of your personality–you can go incognito in one of their oversized self-printed logo bowling shirts or you can stand out in their ‘mind fu*k’ T-shirt.Ranveer Singh's denim jacket in RARKPK costs more than iPhone 14 Pro Max8 colours uber-rich people & multi-millionaires avoid wearing; here's whyThe Dior Tears capsule collection tells a story of the journey of jazz, denim, and the preppy styleSkincare for men: 5 secrets every man should knowHere's why a white T-shirt continues to remain a wardrobe stapleBy Gaurav SonavaneBy Parth CharanBy Saumyaa VohraBy WIREDBy Lucy FordBy Sanjana RayMore From GQ IndiaCondé Nast India© 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service and Policy and Cookie Statement. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.