Inside Athiya Shetty’s bag collection that is replete with classics—from Louis Vuitton’s Noé bucket sling to the Prada nylon shoulder bag
To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesTo revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesBy Aranyaa ChowdhuryAthiya Shetty, with her jam-packed schedule and globetrotting adventures, has mastered the art of accessorising with statement handbags that remain a constant companion in all her travels. Whether having a front-row seat in fashion shows or strutting the streets of London, one thing remains consistent—her impeccable choice of luxury bags. Effortlessly blending timeless classics like 90s shoulder bags and structured handhelds with the millennial classic—baby bags, Shetty's collection epitomises a perfect blend of functionality and eclecticism. Each handbag she carries adds a touch of luxury and elevation to her ensembles, making her a true fashion it-girl in every corner of the world.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.By Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerWhen it comes to functional travel essentials, bucket bags are her favourite. The LV Noé bucket bag harks back to a design from 1932. Her model in a body-friendly Monogram canvas retains the key features of the original – the iconic shape, generous volume, and drawstring closure – but is made for modern life. From styling it with layers of sweatshirts and coats to strutting the streets of Thailand in a knotted t-shirt and slit skirt — the mini bucket bag has been a constant. Another bucket essential is the Goyard Flot Bag made with Goyardine canvas and chevroches calfskin that’s crafted with clever fixing on the strap so you can carry it in multiple ways.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.By Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerThis content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.Ranking high on versatility is her Prada Re-Nylon shoulder bag in the shade of beige. Inspired by the iconic mini hobo bag, the Prada Re-Edition 2005 shoulder bag is made of Re-Nylon: a regenerated nylon yarn. For casual shopping days or running quick errands, Shetty falls back upon her most reliable pick.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.By Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerThis content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.Micro-minis may lack functionality but they’re the apt choice for any evening look — and Shetty agrees. One day you’ll spot her having a power dressing moment with an embellished mini box bag — colour coordinated with her Louboutin heels. Another day, you’ll spot her attending a fashion show — head-to-toe in monochrome, accompanied with a beaded Dior mini bag.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.By Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerThis content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.Femininity is in for the upcoming season, and nothing says class and sophistication like a good top handle bag. Dior’s latest India-inspired D-Joy and the Balenciaga Ville handbag in white small grain calfskin are some of her favourites.By Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerThis content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.By Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerA signature sling style among bag lovers is the leather shoulder with a flap, sealed with the respective luxury label logo hardware. In Shetty’s collection, the diamond-quilted caviar leather of her Chanel double-flap shoulder bag proves to be timeless as ever.Athiya Shetty turned muse for couturier Anamika Khanna with high-shine makeup and a statement wine lipAthiya Shetty's sequinned Namrata Joshipura jumpsuit is a throwback to the disco eraAthiya Shetty paired her summer tank top with this new India-exclusive Dior bagBy Shyamolika VazBy Devki Bhatt By Rujuta VaidyaBy Shriya ZamindarSee more storiesCondé Nast India© 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Policy and Cookie Statement. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.