Brace yourself, the noughties Alexander McQueen skull Scarf is being raised from the dead
To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesTo revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesBy Daniel RodgersI have seen some of the worst horrors known to mankind on TikTok’s slot machine of a For You Page. Things like “Fart Tok” and NPC streaming and Bold Glamour filters, all of which are unsettling enough to keep me watching and sharing and scrolling in an infinite loop. This has taught me two things: that TikTok’s algorithm will shrink brain cells, and that if you stare into the abyss, the abyss stares back at you. But every so often a new video will surface that replenishes both the soul and the adrenal gland.This week, when I saw evidence of American teenagers rediscovering the Alexander McQueen scarf, it felt like taking a massive drag on a watermelon vape after a period of extended abstinence. “This Alexander McQueen scarf is my new personality trait,” read some block text laid over a hastily-recorded clip of someone using the scarf as a makeshift capuche. “The perks of having a [insert unrepeatable on Vogue expletive] mother,” read the accompanying caption, which suggests the TikToker was perhaps not old enough to have also lived through the Jeffrey Campbell Litas and fedoras of the phenomenon first-time around.Lindsay Lohan.Sienna Miller.The scarf debuted during Alexander McQueen’s spring/summer 2003 collection, where models had been styled to look like unwashed pirates and their drowned maidens. There were shredded chiffon gowns and wind-battered leather minis, poet-sleeved blouses and rain-drenched Naval jackets. But it was the rangy and skull-printed scarves that inspired the most devotion, knotted at the side of thick-set belts or twirled around handbag straps with a rakish, picaresque attitude. First among celebs like Kate Moss, the Olsens, Sienna Miller and Ashlee Simpson, and then among people who worked in retail.Despite being in my twenties, I am old enough to remember when this scarf first entered the mainstream and I also remember crowdfunding on BBM to purchase one for a friend’s 18th birthday. I imagine she felt like Blair Waldorf (or perhaps a fifth member of The Libertines) whenever she slung that gossamer status symbol around her shoulders, skulls cascading around a too-tight biker jacket. Paired with an enormous Longchamp and tied into a European loop, it was all about the romance and rebellion of being – or looking like – a nihilistic rich kid masking cig smoke with expensive perfume.Kim Kardashian.Christina Aguilera.But, those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it. In preparation for this article, I decided to undertake some quite intensive research – I contacted Depop – and a representative told me the platform has seen a 20 per cent increase in searches for “Alexander McQueen Skull Scarf” in the last two months alone. That, combined with a steady accretion of Google searches might point towards a broader interest in this once-beloved relic of the late Aughts. The main difference is that people are now twisting the scarf into BBL bandeau tops and Babushka hoods and this kind of thing.The threat of a skull scarf resurgence is precisely the kind of thing that thirty-something millennials would baulk at. “Oh dear, I think I’ll be sitting this one out!” they will tweet, with their geotags on. But that also makes it the perfect viral item on TikTok, where multiple eras in fashion are trending simultaneously. There, fashion trends operate on a flat circle, with everything available everywhere all at once. That might give the illusion of an accelerated cycle, but it still takes ten or so years for something to be resuscitated. It will take a little longer to see a full-blown mainstream revival, of course, but the skeleton scarves are nonetheless rising from the grave.This article was first published on vogue.co.ukBehind the seams: Inside the NGV’s breathtaking Alexander McQueen exhibition5 things to know about Alexander McQueen’s mushroom-inspired AW22 showHow Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen master the art of minimalismBy Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerBy Orla PentelowBy Aranyaa ChowdhuryBy Hayley MaitlandBy Amy Louise BaileySee more storiesCondé Nast India© 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Policy and Cookie Statement. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.