Natalie Portman wore the thong sandal trend in the 90s
To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesTo revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesBy Fernanda Pérez SánchezIt was the 1990s and everyone knew it: Natalie Portman was destined to be a big star. With only two years in the industry, the Israeli-born actress had already scored a huge histrionic success playing Mathilda in Léon (The Professional). Portman was an up-and-comer and was seen everywhere.From the archive of this decade, there are priceless images that would simply not happen today, such as Julia Roberts attending the premiere of a low-budget film; or Salma Hayek driving a low-profile awards show. Thus we find a very young Natalie Portman attending the 1996 MTV awards with a photo that not only confirms that elegance is an inherent quality of her style, but also that even she couldn't resist a nineties trend like thong sandals.Natalie Portman at the MTV Awards. Circa 1996.For this event, the Black Swan star wore a sky-blue mini-dress with floral motifs that matched her handbag. It was a fresh and youthful garment that said a lot about the classic and ultra-feminine style with which Portman burst into Hollywood, almost like a modern Audrey Hepburn.The actress accessorized with plasticized-effect thong sandals with a tiny heel. Her footwear exposed her pearlescent enamel pedicure, a '90s beauty trend that had its enthusiasts and detractors.By Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerThong sandals, with their distinctive houndstooth design, derived from flat sandals worn exclusively at the pool or beach. Celebrities started wearing them with heels in the 1990s, and since then, the story with this footwear hasn't ended.Looks like Natalie Portman 's in 1996 confirms the deeply seductive heritage of thong sandals. At the time, the actress was only 15 years old and her outfit still has those innocent accents typical of a closet that is evolving from puberty to adolescence - hence the plasticky effect of her sandals and the pearly play of her nail polish and makeup. Today, however, thong sandals have evolved to become the epitome of sensuality when it comes to incorporating them into more complex outfits; the Spring-Summer Spring-Summer 2023 runways proved it. proved it.Brands like Coperni, Burberry and Ferragamo included thong sandals in their collections. We see a marked inclination for black designs, flats, the use of dresses over pants, or seductive dresses.Coperni, Spring-Summer 2023.Ferragamo, Spring-Summer 2023.Burberry, Spring-Summer 2023.The same goes for the use of these shoes on celebrities. Few are those who have not worn thong sandals in some of their appearances in the last couple of years. From Kendall Jenner, with a lingerie dress; to Emily Ratajkowski, who shows how to wear them with a tailored suit; to Rosé from Blackpink, with a classic little black dress.Kendall Jenner wearing thong sandals with a satin dress.Emily Ratajkowski wearing thong sandals with a tailored suit.Rosé from Blackpink in a total black Yves Saint Laurent look with thong sandals.This article was first published on vogue.mxIn defence of wearing flip flops– yes, even in monsoon-drenched citiesKendall Jenner swaps date night heels for polarising fashion flip-flops10+ elevated thong sandals your all the cool girls are wearing right nowBy Julia HobbsBy Garima GuptaBy Emma SpeddingBy Alex KesslerSee more storiesCondé Nast India© 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Policy and Cookie Statement. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.