Ever since the Birkenstock sandals entered the fashion world in the 1970s, the utilitarian slip-on slip-off style has become a fashion must-have. Starting its humble beginnings as an orthopaedic footwear that focused on function more than form, Birkenstock sandals not only had a major fashion moment in the Barbie (2023) movie, the company’s recent evaluation at almost $8 Million by Bloomberg has spiralled the brand into peak virality. Landing collaborations with notable fashion houses like Dior, Manolo Blahnik, Jil Sander, and Valentino, this orthopaedic-approved sandal has slotted itself seamlessly into a runway-approved closet staple.

While the Olsen twins may have championed the peculiar art of effortlessly cool off-duty style with the classic Birkenstocks through the years, style mavens like Kendall Jenner, Gigi Hadid, Anushka Sharma, and Ananya Panday are now giving us major fashion notes on how to incorporate the cork bottom sandal into summer style. The fashion set is clearly reimagining this summer’s hottest sandal, and we are here for it. Read on as we list some prototype ensembles to copy throughout this season.

Anushka Sharma
Actor and producer Anushka Sharma’s style has always been a front-runner for a comfortable and relaxed aesthetic, which she demonstrates by heavily investing in classics. The actor has created a signature style for herself with her noteworthy capsule wardrobe essentials. Seen on her Instagram wearing white Birkenstock Arizonas with her statement boyfriend jeans and oversized shirts, the actor also paired the same sandals on another occasion with a white kurta set.

Karisma Kapoor
Known for her elegant style and impeccable taste, Kapoor’s take on the Birkenstock sandal is of comfort and ease. Pairing them on two different occasions in two different colours, the actor made a strong case for opting for the brighter colours this monsoon.

Kendall Jenner
Jenner’s proclivity for minimalist style and silhouettes makes the illusive Birkenstock an obvious choice in footwear for her. The most coveted off-duty sandal for models, Jenner paired her Birkenstock Bostons with denim overalls and added a bandana to her look. Giving us a fresh serving of a casual farm-girl vibe fit for our summer-style mood board.

Gigi Hadid
Gigi Hadid, a supermodel and now a creative director of her label, Guest In Residence, has mastered the art of carefully curating an understated look that feels put together, yet has an air of nonchalance. Keeping this aesthetic in mind, Hadid posted a picture of herself on her Instagram from a farm side summer day, where she paired her floral sundress with a pair of tan Birkenstock sandals. In another photo, the supermodel wore the clog version with socks and a crochet dress to the beach.

Ananya Panday
Easily one of the most influential style divas of Bollywood, Ananya Panday chose to take her white Birkenstocks on a spin to a casual day at the movies. She chose them as a final pairing for a cheery cotton kurta. A look right on cue for the humid monsoon days of Mumbai.

Leandra Medine
Author and fashion blogger Leandra Medine gave us a fresh spin on Birkenstocks for the summer by pairing them with her white cotton pants and statement printed blouse. A look that is perfect for those looking for an outfit equally invested in style and comfort for a daytime run or an evening hangout.