How to wear Birkenstock sandals according to Gigi Hadid, Ananya Panday, Anushka Sharma, and more It-girls
To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesTo revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesBy Devki Bhatt Ever since the Birkenstock sandals entered the fashion world in the 1970s, the utilitarian slip-on slip-off style has become a fashion must-have. Starting its humble beginnings as an orthopaedic footwear that focused on function more than form, Birkenstock sandals not only had a major fashion moment in the Barbie (2023) movie, the company’s recent evaluation at almost $8 Million by Bloomberg has spiralled the brand into peak virality. Landing collaborations with notable fashion houses like Dior, Manolo Blahnik, Jil Sander, and Valentino, this orthopaedic-approved sandal has slotted itself seamlessly into a runway-approved closet staple.While the Olsen twins may have championed the peculiar art of effortlessly cool off-duty style with the classic Birkenstocks through the years, style mavens like Kendall Jenner, Gigi Hadid, Anushka Sharma, and Ananya Panday are now giving us major fashion notes on how to incorporate the cork bottom sandal into summer style. The fashion set is clearly reimagining this summer’s hottest sandal, and we are here for it. Read on as we list some prototype ensembles to copy throughout this season.Actor and producer Anushka Sharma’s style has always been a front-runner for a comfortable and relaxed aesthetic, which she demonstrates by heavily investing in classics. The actor has created a signature style for herself with her noteworthy capsule wardrobe essentials. Seen on her Instagram wearing white Birkenstock Arizonas with her statement boyfriend jeans and oversized shirts, the actor also paired the same sandals on another occasion with a white kurta set.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.By Melanie PauknerBy Hasina JeelaniThis content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.Known for her elegant style and impeccable taste, Kapoor’s take on the Birkenstock sandal is of comfort and ease. Pairing them on two different occasions in two different colours, the actor made a strong case for opting for the brighter colours this monsoon.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.By Melanie PauknerBy Hasina JeelaniThis content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.Jenner’s proclivity for minimalist style and silhouettes makes the illusive Birkenstock an obvious choice in footwear for her. The most coveted off-duty sandal for models, Jenner paired her Birkenstock Bostons with denim overalls and added a bandana to her look. Giving us a fresh serving of a casual farm-girl vibe fit for our summer-style mood board.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.Her statement eclectic style that is forever larger than life in its sartorial delivery, Tracee Ellis Ross, has given new meaning to being the biggest champion of your style. With never a dull moment when serving looks as her key style mantra, the actor’s pairing of her Birkenstock is obviously non-obvious. Pairing her white Birkenstock Arizonas with a khaki oversized suit and trousers set, she made a case for the casual sandals for formalwear. She was also seen wearing a maroon version of the sandal paired with her red two-piece, which had us adding them to our packing list for the next beachside escapade.By Melanie PauknerBy Hasina JeelaniThis content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.Gigi Hadid, a supermodel and now a creative director of her label, Guest In Residence, has mastered the art of carefully curating an understated look that feels put together, yet has an air of nonchalance. Keeping this aesthetic in mind, Hadid posted a picture of herself on her Instagram from a farm side summer day, where she paired her floral sundress with a pair of tan Birkenstock sandals. In another photo, the supermodel wore the clog version with socks and a crochet dress to the beach.By Melanie PauknerBy Hasina JeelaniThis content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.Easily one of the most influential style divas of Bollywood, Ananya Panday chose to take her white Birkenstocks on a spin to a casual day at the movies. She chose them as a final pairing for a cheery cotton kurta. A look right on cue for the humid monsoon days of Mumbai.By Melanie PauknerBy Hasina JeelaniThis content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.Author and fashion blogger Leandra Medine gave us a fresh spin on Birkenstocks for the summer by pairing them with her white cotton pants and statement printed blouse. A look that is perfect for those looking for an outfit equally invested in style and comfort for a daytime run or an evening hangout.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.Pairing Birkenstock sandals with socks is one of the many ways to nail the ugly-chic aestheticThe quintessential Birkenstock sandals won't be going out of style anytime soon, take it from Gigi HadidHow Birkenstock sandals went from “ugly shoe” to an everyday style stapleBy Arushi SinhaBy Garima GuptaBy Rupangi GroverBy Vogue.inSee more storiesCondé Nast India© 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Policy and Cookie Statement. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.