Best fashion Instagrams of the week—celebrities from Deepika Padukone to Dua Lipa showcased beachside brunch style in bikinis
To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesTo revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesBy Piya DhimanWe didn’t see it coming either, but this week, our favourite starlets like Deepika Padukone have surprised us with the on-holiday mindset, serving us beachwear looks for whichever sandy beach you find yourself at this season. Whether it's a reminder to make use of the upcoming long weekends or an attempt to escape the gloomy monsoon weather in exchange for tropical vibes, they have us tempted to hit the pause button. While Deepika Padukone broke the internet in a monochromatic abstract bikini, Priyanka Chopra Jonas wasn’t far behind with her chequered beachside wear.However, it was Dua Lipa who took the By the Sea memo to the T and turned mermaid with her latest series of pictures. We all saw the singer and actor ace her role as mermaid Barbie in Greta Gerwig’s latest masterpiece, but now the Dance the Night singer decided to give her fiery spin to the look. By now, her penchant for crochet is more than evident. And yet again proving the same, she got dressed in a red see-through crochet gown with a long fishtail trail with nothing but a visible black thong underneath.Who says glitter and swimwear can’t go together? Joining the clan is Poorna Jagannathan, who also took to Instagram to share her poolside escapades, bringing the shimmer to the water. The Never Have I Ever famed actor dressed in a mustard-gold swimsuit featuring a risque plunging deep neckline. Even Ananya Panday rendered her version of the itty-bitty bikini in a bright shade of pink and captioned “took the pink theme too seriously 🤭☀️”Miu Miu's new muse, Gigi Hadid, arrived at the Malibu Pier for a beachside fete in celebration of the Italian fashion label's pop-up sporting a slinky black spaghetti strap dress with a micro logo printed across the chest. Giving the micromini and florals a rest, Hadid went for a summertime LBD with her hair slicked back and a white Arcadie bag also from the same label.That should be enough inspiration for putting together the perfect beach or poolside look, however, that was not all of the statements made this week. Mrunal Thakur served us all the drama and glitz in a Falguni Shane Peacock pantsuit with OTT accents featuring fur-trimmed sleeves and pearl embellishments. Not just her, even Bhumi Pednekar dialled things up a notch and stirred up a technicolour lehenga set by power duo Gauri & Nainika, which can be vouched for as the perfect dress code for monsoon weddings.By Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerThis content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.By Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerThis content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.By Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerThis content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.By Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerThis content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.By Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerThis content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.By Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerThis content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.By Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerThis content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.Dua Lipa’s summer vacation style is in a league of its ownPriyanka Chopra Jonas' all-white sweats and sports bra combination is the best way to look put-together while still being comfyDeepika Padukone's viral throwback bikini moment also reveals that we're not quite over a good sarongBy Rujuta Vaidya and Sneha MankaniBy Anjan SacharBy Nitya ChablaniSee more storiesCondé Nast India© 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Policy and Cookie Statement. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.