Kendall Jenner swaps date night heels for polarising fashion flip-flops
To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesTo revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesBy Alex KesslerKendall Jenner consistently raises the bar when it comes to date night style. Earlier this year, to join her rapper boyfriend Bad Bunny at a Met Gala after-party, she wore a dazzling Nensi Dojaka playsuit – a modern take on a 1994 Chanel design. The couple later rocked matching snakeskin-print boots courtside at a Lakers vs Warriors basketball game.Earlier this week, the couple were spotted in sleek coordinating leather separates for dinner – with Kendall wearing towering stilettos. However, at a party the following evening, the model opted for a less conventional going out shoe. While hanging out with friends Hailey and Justin Bieber at Soho House in Malibu, KJ sported a high-low ensemble made up of a black and white satin bandeau midi-dress, a white leather clutch bag and black Prada micro shades. The standout element? Her luxe black flip flops from The Row (yours for £860).KJ proves that fashion flats are not a flop.Last summer, fashion flip-flops gained immense popularity among influential dressers, with Dua Lipa, Hailey Bieber and Rosie Huntington-Whiteley being notable fans. The most popular styles at the time – from brands like Coperni, Dries Van Noten and The Attico – featured platform bases.Fast forward to this year and, with thanks to Kendall Jenner, a flatter, more subtle take might just become the new style to wear.This article was first published on vogue.co.ukIn defence of wearing flip flops– yes, even in monsoon-drenched citiesSonam Kapoor's recent look is perfect for summer frolicking20 fun party flats to help you dance through the seasonBy Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerSee more storiesCondé Nast India© 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Policy and Cookie Statement. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.