Rekha’s wardrobe in Khoon Bhari Maang is all the inspiration you need to enter your villain era
To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesTo revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesBy Hasina JeelaniOver the course of the past five decades, Rekha’s name has become synonymous with several iconic roles, and revenge drama Khoon Bhari Maang (1988) is chief among them. There might be little compensation for being fed to a crocodile by your gold digger husband, but a standout makeover can serve as a soothing salve for those wounds. Such is the story of simpleton Aarti (played by Rekha), who emerges from the depths of the darkness to exact vengeance on her philandering husband (played by Kabir Bedi).Along the way, she trades in her diamond studs for a va-va-voom makeover with a statement-making wardrobe to match. If Umrao Jaan (1981) was Rekha’s love letter to ivory anarkalis, Khoon Bhari Maang was a testament of her prowess with Western silhouettes—think bold monotones, diamanté-everything and lustrous lamé that promises instant polish.Among other signatures from the movie, Rekha also paraded a slew of striking headgear options, from dramatic headwraps to metallic turbans that deliver the high-impact appeal we all seek when day turns to dusk. The movie would also serve as the starting point of her well-documented history with headgear, from the gilded serpent crown in Sheshnaag (1990) to the towering turbans that stood proud on her head in Madam X (1994). For those who care to look closely, Rekha’s co-opting of androgynous accessories was further underscored by a pivotal change in Indian cinema that finally conceded its pliant notions of femininity in the face of a new era of gun-toting femme fatales who weren’t afraid to spill blood.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.By Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerIn the larger fashion landscape, Rekha’s love for headwraps was a nod to the iconic hooded gowns of the era. Yves Saint Laurent dreamed of his signature hooded capuche during the mid-1980s, while Azzedine Alaïa immortalised his hooded gowns on Bond girl, Grace Jones in A View To Kill (1985). Both designers were likely inspired by their childhood in North Africa, and their creations continue to hold cultural relevance in the contemporary age where they are frequented by the likes of Jenna Ortega and Bella Hadid, perhaps herself looking to grow closer to her Palestinian roots.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.Such is the allure of this dress code-defying silhouette that it continues to find favour in Rekha’s sartorial vernacular even today. Further proof of the same can be found in her recent appearance at designer Manish Malhotra’s house when she strayed from her signature Kanjeevarams to opt for a statement headwrap and lent further heft to an old adage: trends might be temporary, but true style is timeless.This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.Tracing Rekha’s most iconic onscreen fashion moments — from signature Kanjeevaram saris to silk anarkalisAre Rekha and Maria Grazia Chiuri the new power duo this fashion season?18 pictures that take you inside Rekha’s sari collectionBy Devki Bhatt By Melanie PauknerBy Hannah CoatesSee more storiesCondé Nast India© 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Policy and Cookie Statement. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.