How to wear a blazer like a millionaire
To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesTo revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved storiesFollow usBy Paloma GonzálezDo you want to know the secrets of how to wear a blazer so you’ll look like a cool and sophisticated millionaire? You don’t need to take a class or blow your clothing budget on a new blazer. Instead, simply follow these tips and tricks and you learn how this wardrobe staple can become a star of your outfit.A good place to start when learning how to incorporate a blazer into your outfits is by looking to the quiet luxury trend, which despite the name doesn’t have to be expensive to follow. Some basic rules of the quiet luxury style include paying close attention to details, colours, quality materials, combinations of garments, and the fit of every garment. And, always, focus on quality that lasts over bargains that don’t.Among the appealing features of blazers is that they are very versatile, and they can be used with all types of outfits and looks. They are a timeless basic and a good quality blazer can become a central element of your wardrobe for the rest of your life. This makes it all the more important that when you buy one, it suits you perfectly, justifying your investment.For a blazer to become a central item in your wardrobe, it’s important that it both fits you well and that you were it correctly. Here we provide a few things you’ll want to keep in mind when buying and wearing a blazer.Follow these tips on how to wear a blazer like a millionaire.To get the most out of any piece of clothing, you need to think outside the box and beyond the traditional ways you might wear it. In the case of blazers, this means that you should move beyond wearing them only with suits and dress trousers. Instead, you’ll want to pair them with more casual items to create an effect that is laid-back and stylish.The combination of a blazer with jeans is a no-fail classic look but you’ll want to pick the right jeans to pull it off. Preferably they should be simple, with a flattering fit, and in a medium or dark blue. In the summer, you can pair a blazer with white jeans.A polo shirt is a key piece of clothing for the old-money look as well as a favourite of anyone trying to pull off the quiet luxury style. And, as a plus, it doesn’t cost much to add a few to your wardrobe.Replace your button-down shirt with a polo shirt. Make sure to pick a colour that works well with the rest of your outfit.A tuxedo jacket is not a blazer, it is a formal item that should be worn with more elegant and formal looks. That may sound obvious, but the point to remember here is that blazers are more casual. They don't always have to be worn with a suit and they come in a wide variety of colours and materials.This is important because to pull off a look, you need to pick the right blazer. You don’t want to wear a wool blazer in the summer, and it is always better to wear light colours for daytime events. Beyond those basics, you should also consider details like the buttons, whether you want a single- or double-breasted blazer, and the pocket details.Picking the right colour and accessories is crucial.This is true for any item of clothing, not just blazers. Choosing the right colour for a garment is essential and it can help your look work that much better for any occasion.Use your blazer as a starting point, choosing whichever colour you like the most, but then always stay focused on achieving harmony and balance as you select a shirt, trousers, and accessories. These elements should complement the colour of the star piece of your outfit.Don’t worry if you don’t have the budget to buy a bespoke blazer. You can achieve a custom-made effect with the help of a good tailor, who can make the necessary adjustments so that your off-the-rack blazer will look like it was made just for you.Accessories are the final detail that helps give more coherence, personality, and style to an outfit. When it comes to looking like a millionaire, there are some classics to try, such as scarves, classic sunglasses, or even a good watch—the last is an ideal touch as it will elevate your outfit and is functional too.First published on gq.com.mxRanveer Singh's denim jacket in RARKPK costs more than iPhone 14 Pro Max8 colours uber-rich people & multi-millionaires avoid wearing; here's whyThe Dior Tears capsule collection tells a story of the journey of jazz, denim, and the preppy styleSkincare for men: 5 secrets every man should knowHere's why a white T-shirt continues to remain a wardrobe stapleBy  Saloni DhruvBy  Saloni DhruvBy  Saloni DhruvBy Sam SharmaaBy Umaima SaeedBy Parth CharanBy Priyadarshini Patwa By Umaima SaeedMore From GQ IndiaCondé Nast India© 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service and Policy and Cookie Statement. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.